Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we'll meet a brother who preaches in the Indian Sign Language field.
What can we learn from his view of the challenges he faces in his assignment?
Jehovah's sheep belong to him.
This dramatization shows a special way that Jehovah uses shepherds in the congregation to care for his flock.
And have you witnessed the life-changing moment when someone first learns God's name?
We'll see the results of this sister's lifelong search to know the true God.
This and much more is ahead on the June 2016 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Jehovah's people have always considered the studying of his word to be an essential part of life.
God's law to Israel commanded that the king must read from the law all the days of his life so that he may learn to fear Jehovah his God.
In the Mayan territories of Yucatan, Mexico, our brothers are helping people learn to read God's word for themselves.
People's lives change when they can finally read the Bible on their own and more readily learn to fear Jehovah their God.
One of the six people on earth doesn't know how to read.
Jehovah's Witnesses around the world have organized literacy classes to help such ones.
I don't like to read.
I used to sleep at the meetings.
In the territory, most people speak the Mayan language, but very few can read it.
On occasion I would give a talk and when I would cite a scripture, most of the audience would look it up.
But then I would see a blank stare on their face because they couldn't read the text.
I was moved to learn how to read because I wanted to learn about Jehovah and study his word the Bible.
So a sister came to my house to teach me.
Literacy classes are often conducted on an individual level.
After a person has had their Bible study, they can spend some time to practice reading skills.
But when the local elders notice that there are many that can benefit from this training, they can schedule a larger class at the Kingdom Hall.
The study material used for this purpose is the brochure, apply yourself to reading and writing.
It's available in 30 languages in the Central America branch territory.
Other study materials can be used as well, as long as they help the development of the students enrolled in the class.
And we use a board on which we write, for instance, words that are difficult to pronounce.
This helps in the reading of complicated words.
There are some who are, well, very quick learners.
On the other hand, others go word by word, but as they practice, they start getting the hang of it.
I'm good at missionary work, but learning to read is not easy.
Reading at his age is a big challenge.
You need to understand that each student learns differently, with some you need to be very patient.
The first word I learned to write was Jehovah.
It's like this, I tell him. He says, it's because you're not being patient with me.
Having a sense of humor is a big help in the learning process, so it's not to focus on errors and mistakes.
Since 1946, when records began being taken in Mexico, more than 152,000 people have learned to read and write thanks to these training efforts.
The Secretary of Public Education in the state of Mexico has recognized the work and the great help these literacy classes have been to the local citizens.
The skills they learn help in their day-to-day life, but also it helps them to learn more about Jehovah and to be able to teach others.
I used to have to memorize everything I was going to say, but now I can read short scriptures to people directly from the Bible.
As the students progress in the class, they demonstrate the words found at 1 Timothy 415, which says in part,
so that your advancement may be plainly seen by all people, and these benefits are plainly seen in the students.
My husband was an alcoholic, he smoked, and he used bad language, but he made big changes in his life.
And we see that this training has been a big help. We really see these great blessings.
Reading helped me to get baptized.
Helping other people to improve their reading skills makes me feel very happy.
I feel great because I see on their face the joy they get from reading and understanding the information.
Well, I've benefited so much. For instance, now we read the Bible together as a family. It makes me very happy.
We're more united as a family. Our children respect my husband more, like the father he is.
Now I'm a ministerial servant. When I go preaching door to door, some people say, I don't know how to read.
But then I tell them, I didn't know either, but I learned about Jehovah, and you can too.
If I learned to read, anybody can.
Our theme for this month is, consider, insight, and encourage one another all the more so.
JW Broadcasting. Why do we enjoy it so much?
Many of you have expressed how the monthly broadcast draws you closer to our brothers and sisters and to Jehovah's organization.
If you're homebound or isolated, you especially treasure these programs.
And yet, while we appreciate the advances and technology that have made all of this possible,
we know that your sincere desire is to be present with your brothers and sisters in person at our congregation meetings.
Jehovah's Witnesses around the world share this feeling.
In Northern Finland, for example, winners are especially cold, even by Finnish standards.
At times, temperatures plummet to minus 50 degrees Celsius or minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit.
Under those conditions, it's very difficult to drive much less walk-long distances.
Still, the brothers love to gather together. How do they manage it?
In one small village, there's a brother who lives near the Kingdom Hall and has a warm garage.
On meeting nights, he uses his car to bring each family in the congregation to the hall,
then he parks in his garage and runs the short distance back to the Kingdom Hall.
When the meeting is over, he returns all the friends safely to their homes.
In the Bible, gatherings for pure worship were occasions for personal association with fellow believers.
Such association required travel to a designated place. This involved work, sacrifice, even risk.
Consider what is stated at Exodus chapter 34, verse 24.
This verse has to do with the command that every Israelite male should gather three times a year for the festivals in Jerusalem.
What would that mean in practical terms? Wouldn't the nation be left vulnerable to attack if no men were left to guard the land?
And if words spread among the surrounding nations that practically everyone congregated in Jerusalem three times a year,
like clockwork, year after year, wouldn't it be just a matter of time before some invading army would come and pillage in Israelite city?
At Exodus 34, 24, we find Jehovah's remarkable answer.
For I will drive the nations away from before you, and I will enlarge your territory, and nobody will desire.
Yes, even desire your land while you are going up to see the face of Jehovah your God three times a year.
Jehovah kept that promise. It's a historical fact that from 1513 BCE, all the way down to 66 CE, no foreign nation ever came to invade Israelite territory during those three annual festivals.
Jehovah placed high value on having his people gather together in the same space.
In the Christian era, the Apostle Paul wrote at 1 Corinthians 1423 about the whole congregation coming together to one place.
Now, although modern broadcasting technology didn't exist in those days, there were other viable methods of communicating, such as writing letters, that didn't require people to be physically present in the same location.
Still, the Apostle John, though a capable writer, preferred face-to-face interchange with fellow Christians as he expressed at 2 John 12.
Or consider what is stated at Job 16.
Now, the day came when the sons of the true God entered to take their station before Jehovah.
Job 21 speaks of another such day. Just imagine, here Jehovah himself, though having all conceivable methods of communication at his disposal, set specific days for his spirit creatures in heaven to assemble in his immediate presence.
Clearly, the scriptures encourage regular personal association with fellow servants of God, virtual attendance through modern communication technology has value, and we're happy to use it.
But it's no substitute for being together. And why not? Because of what association with the congregation achieves, it's not just that we receive nutritious and varied spiritual food, meetings inform us.
But so does JW Broadcasting, meetings encourage us. But so does JW Broadcasting, fellow Christians who offer comments and sing from the heart, build us up.
And yet, we can hear that also on JW Broadcasting. It's when we're together, altogether in one place that others can hear us and draw encouragement from our heartfelt convictions, our smile, our handshake.
Meetings give us opportunities to show our brothers and sisters that we esteem them as worthy of our time, attention and concern.
That's why we go and visit our brothers who are homebound or isolated because we want to show them that we love them.
Moreover, in a special way, our meetings bring us under the influence of Holy Spirit.
At Revelation chapter 2, verse 7, the glorified Jesus said,
Let the one who has an ear hear what the Spirit says to the congregations. We need that spirit to help us resist temptation to embolden and equip us for the ministry and to enable us to make sound decisions.
Still, there's a reason to attend meetings that's even more important than the pleasant company, the peaceful atmosphere, the genuine refreshment, the sense of belonging, the opportunities to give, or even the fact that meetings are a means by which we received Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
The key reason why we gather together is stated at Psalm 2612.
My foot is standing on level ground in the great congregation I will praise Jehovah.
Yes, the principal reason why we gather together in person is to give Jehovah what he deserves, praise, glory, yes, worship.
But our meeting attendance shows Jehovah that we want to draw close to him and his son.
In his abundant love, Jehovah invites many more to serve him and keep living.
Because he lives eternally, Jehovah can nurture those relationships forever.
The adversary can offer no such hope of endless life, so he promotes selfishness, pride, and other negative traits that isolate people from one another even when they're in the same room engaged in the same activities.
In contrast, our great God is drawing his people closer to himself, to his son, and to one another so that we may all be one as Jesus prayed, as recorded at John 1721.
And it's not just the act of converging on the same location that unites us either.
Lots of people coexist in the same space when they go to a market, attend a sporting event or use public transportation.
Crowding of itself does not equate with unity.
What makes the true Christian congregation different?
Notice how Hebrews chapter 10 verses 24 and 25 answers this question.
Now here we find the divinely inspired standard for all our gatherings.
And let us consider one another so as to incite to love and find works.
Not forsaking our meeting together, some have the custom, but encouraging one another, and all the more so as you see the day drawing near.
Now what does it mean to consider one another? What does it mean to incite to love and find works? And in what way might we encourage one another?
The verb consider could also be rendered be concerned about, pay attention to.
So when we consider one another, we show interest that goes far beyond a brief greeting.
And when we pay careful attention to one another, we're better prepared to incite, that is to motivate one another, to stir one another to action.
And how might we do this?
Not by making comparisons or shaming our brothers for that would hardly be encouraging one another.
We endeavor to lift one another's hearts when we're together.
And when we do this to the best of our ability, then we can be confident that Jehovah's spirit will do the rest, and that our brothers will feel strengthened.
It's evident then that true worship means participation. It requires a response.
Another noteworthy example of this is the encouragement we both give and receive when we sing together with our brothers and sisters.
In ancient Israel, at times they had a chorus, such as the one described in Nehemiah chapter 12 that we talked about in our midweek meeting back in February.
Much of Israel's group singing was antifinal, that is, some of the singers prompted others to respond.
For instance, Psalm 106, which begins and ends with the words Praise Ja, or hallelujah, encourage the people to say in response, amen.
Psalm 136 was written to allow for different choruses to answer one another. Now just imagine responding choruses singing these alternating lines.
Give thanks to Jehovah for he is good. His loyal love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of gods for his loyal love endures forever.
Give thanks to the Lord of lords for his loyal love endures forever, and on it went for 26 verses.
To this day, singing demonstrates our heartfelt response to the goodness of Jehovah.
And what a joy it is to sing in company with others who are moved to pour out the depths of their feelings to Jehovah.
And now at our kingdom halls, we're accompanied by orchestral renderings of many of our songs, and other reason to sing out at our midweek and weekend meetings.
And speaking of the midweek meeting, how are you enjoying the new format? More of the program is devoted to delving into the Bible itself.
Time spent on preparing us for our public ministry focuses more than ever on situations we face in field service, and the meetings move along at a satisfying pace.
Yes, JW Broadcasting is a wonderful blessing, a powerful means to talk to and fortify our brothers around the world simultaneously.
Still, nothing can replace the experience of worshipping Jehovah in concert with our fellow servants of God at congregation meetings.
When a meeting concludes, and we lift our heads after the final prayer, we find ourselves surrounded by others who love Jehovah and support his sovereignty.
These important benefits are detailed in the April 2016 study article, why should we meet together for worship?
This month, we're studying that article worldwide. Later, in October, we begin a special campaign to invite the public to our meetings.
If you do not yet regularly associate with Jehovah's Witnesses, or if you travel away from your congregation, use JW.org to find a meeting you can attend.
Click about us, meetings, and find a location near you, or simply scroll to the bottom of any JW.org page and click attend our meetings.
At our meetings, you'll experience what it means to consider, insight, and encourage one another all the more so as we see the day drawing near.
We've discussed vital ways we benefit when we come together for worship at Christian meetings.
What many notice when they first attend meetings of Jehovah's Witnesses is that they hear God's name Jehovah.
In this life story, Sotan Yuan relates the impact that learning God's name had on her after surviving the killing fields of Cambodia.
On the killing fields in Cambodia, I prayed to God, but I didn't know His name.
When I was a very young girl, they subredd of a family, and they put me to work in a rice field from five in the morning till nine in the evening.
When you see some other children that get killed, you really desperately cry for help inside. You always think that you were next.
But in my heart, I always believe that it has to be a true God somewhere, somehow, that can help me get through this.
One year later, my family decided to escape Cambodia.
We walk close to 6-7 months to Thailand, and I have 20 brothers and sisters, only four of us are wife.
I have a blind on that hold on my shoulder all the time, but one day we got caught.
As they start shooting, I push my on down to the ground and try to pretend that we are dead.
And when I get up, I have no idea where my parent was, and we spent many months in a jungle.
As I try to survive, I eat what I work and find, and I also help my aunt eat to survive.
One day when I go out to look for food, I walk so far away, I couldn't find my way back.
I start crying really hard underneath the tree, and look up to the sky, and pray to the true God.
I was raised as a child to pray to Buddha, but on this night, when I start praying,
I specifically said that I am not praying to Buddha, I am praying to the true God, and I say,
true God, if you are really here, please help me, because I am really scared, and I am hungry, I am cold.
After I pray, I just fall to sleep under the big tree.
Eventually, I make it into the refugee camp in Thailand, and I was reunited with my family.
We live in the refugee camp in Thailand for about ten years, before we come to the United States.
My searching for the true God, it didn't stop there.
We tried to go to different churches, but we didn't understand anything.
One day when I come home from school, I met this gentleman named Harold, and he asked if he can talk to me about God.
I agree, because I saw he had a Bible, he must be a good man.
When he talked to me, I tried to pay attention, so hard, but I still didn't understand what he was saying.
When he went very slow, and then he said, your name, I say my name so 10, and then he said, your name so 10,
my name's Harold, God's name, Jehovah.
I never thought God had name, and I was in that day on, and I will forget Jehovah's name.
It's super glue in my heart.
He gave me his phone number, he said, how can I ask his wife to stop by someday, but then I moved away from where I live.
Even though I didn't do the truth at that time, I always prayed to Jehovah.
After I learned God's name, I went back to the church, the priest would start out with Heavenly Father, but live out Jehovah's name.
So I raised my hand, I asked him, sir, when you pray Heavenly Father, why don't you say Heavenly Father Jehovah?
Why are you not using God's name?
And then he told me that God does not force me to be here, so I welcome to leave or stay if I want.
So because I realized that they don't use Jehovah's name, I left, and never return.
And after many years, I tried to call Harold, but no one picked up the phone, so I live a message.
I was hoping that they'd remember me.
Two weeks later, Harold came to my door, but at the time I was working at night and sleep during the day,
but Harold never gave up, he came back, and I keep on praying to Jehovah, asking for someone to knock on my door.
And finally, one day, I opened a door, and when I saw him, I almost couldn't talk, I was tear up, I was so happy to see him.
Because this is the man who introduced me to Jehovah's name.
Eventually, I started to study with sister, and she helped me grow spiritually.
To know that you have a Heavenly Father, that care about you.
That was the best feeling on earth.
It makes me want to know more about him, want to learn more about him.
I would ask questions, did he like this? Did he like that?
And then, when I go to the camp tomorrow, I hear Jehovah's name so many times.
I feel that's it, I found my place.
I got baptized in 2013.
My blind aunt, that I helped her survive through the jungle, she's still living until today.
And now that I can get a chance to talk to her about Jehovah, that was a blessing.
And I can't stress enough how wonderful and make privilege that I receive from Jehovah just to know who he is.
And to learn that there is true God, he has a name, and his name is Jehovah.
Sister UN still carries painful memories from what she and her family suffered because of man's ruthless wars.
But she now has hope for the future and the comfort of knowing her Heavenly Father, Jehovah, something we all share with her.
Sister UN has the added joy of worshiping the true God together with her husband and young daughter.
When we're at our meetings, we helped the congregation to stay close together part of the one flock that follows the one shepherd.
In the following dramatization, note the way in which one young man receives Jehovah's love through faithful undershepherds.
I always loved music. I got my first guitar when I was 15. And since then, it's been my wave expressing myself.
When they ask, Dave, do you want to join the band? I didn't have to think twice.
Making music, that's all that really mattered to me.
I thought being a musician would make me happy. So that is the path I followed.
Only it is not what I thought it to be. I work here during the day to pay the bills.
I thought my life would turn out better, but something was missing.
Instead of being happy, I just felt lost.
Man, I'm distracted. They are friendly and look happy. He gave me a tract and said, many people are searching for true happiness.
Maybe you are one of them. This could help. I quickly wrote down my address and asked whether they would mind passing by after I finished my shift.
I was searching all right. Actually, the answers were in front of me all along.
How come I only get it now? You see, I was baptized, but I never gave the truth a chance.
Roy did come as promised. I told him I'm a baptized brother. He really listened to me.
Then he shared Psalm 100 verse 3. Know that Jehovah is God. He is the one who made us, and we belong to Him.
We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. In the Bible, Jehovah is likened to a shepherd.
He knows every single one of His sheep, and He knows when one goes missing.
A lost sheep is not a lost cause. It still belongs to Him, and Jehovah doesn't spare any efforts in searching for it.
Until He finds it, I was like one of those lost sheep, but I still belong to Jehovah, and He has never forgotten about me.
Roy promised we would keep in touch, and invited me to the Sunday meeting, and I was nervous that morning.
I wanted to look my best. Roy and Matthew were waiting for me, giving me a warm welcome.
Something I'll never forget. I missed this. This is indeed Jehovah's congregation.
This is where I belong. The truth has never been so clear to me. I enjoy the close company of my brothers and sisters.
What I enjoy most is helping others to find our loving father, Jehovah. With Jehovah's help, I will never be lost again.
The November 2015 broadcast stressed that there is no better place to be than in Jehovah's protective arms.
Those who have drifted away from Jehovah were then, and are still now warmly encouraged to act without delay.
As we saw depicted, Jehovah provides shepherds who care for his sheep and lovingly guide them back into his organization.
When the preaching work was getting started in such countries as South Korea, Jehovah often used missionaries to help strengthen our brothers.
In an archived interview, Brother Jong Il Park describes the effect this had on his sacred service, and how it prepared him for the trials he would face.
From 1939, our brothers didn't have any contact with Jehovah's organization, and they thought that no organization exists.
Then in 1948, a brother read from a newspaper about the activity of watchtower society, and it surprised the brothers.
So, brothers wrote the society and the society was so happy hearing from Korean brothers, and they answered with many booklets in Korean.
There were two different reactions. Some brothers was excited about preaching work yet another group.
Question, is that true organization of Jehovah, first missionary group brother and sister still arrived in August 9th, 1949?
All the questions were answered by a brother still, and then right away, brothers were preaching in unity.
I began pioneering in January 1950, and then March 1950, six more missionaries arrived from Gilles' school.
We had only one congregation in Seoul, and the missionaries were busy for many Bible studies.
So many interested persons coming to the meeting, the public talk was arranged in school auditorium first time, and there were over 360 people attending.
Whereas the public was about 60, the same day Korean War broke out, and the missionaries had to leave in 27th of June to Japan.
And then our brothers had to take refuge to a thousand parts of Korea.
I was hiding in the country, then a few days later, the secret police from communist found us.
We explained to him, as a Christian, we cannot participate in the war, so we had to hide ourselves.
And then he says, well, I do not know much about religion, so I better take one of my friends who knows about religion.
So I will come back tomorrow, don't leave from here.
So then we waited until next day, and he came with another.
So I started preaching from the Bible, that why this war broke out, and many problems in the war, so on, because the fulfillment of Jesus' prophecy in May 24.
Then they said that, well, thank you very much for your preaching, and then say goodbye.
Then two days later, the latter one came with another friend, so that we could preach to them.
During three months, they were staying in Seoul, and in fact, they protected us.
I was picked by South Korean Army, and to serve the back support of the military in front line, to carry arms to the soldiers.
Which I could not accept.
So I refused it, and then I was beat, and then one day this company has to move to other place.
So they hide myself in the behind of the ceiling, and so that they do not notice when they leave the place.
And the next morning, when I came down, there was nothing left.
I walked on one street toward one direction, and then I found a sign, says International Bible Students Association.
So I stayed with the brothers for six months.
Brother Steer came back from Japan by himself, so that they take care of the brothers.
In 1952, Brother Steer recommended me to Gilles school, so that I was invited in 22nd class.
So I took the steps to get the passport, and then the government found out that I didn't serve military.
They gave me the draft notice instead of passport.
So I had to stand for the neutrality instead of going Gilles school, which made me to be confined in military prison for two years.
In 1958, I was enrolled in Gilles school in 32nd class.
I really appreciate that Gilles school training.
Since my job in the branch, especially in translation work, and translation work involves a deep knowledge, and the Gilles training was certainly helped in translation work.
We are appreciation about the truth and the organization, the brothers' qualities, the humbleness, and weakness.
Certainly, it helped me to follow the examples to apply in the full-time service.
Did you know what Brother Park said he appreciated most, even after enduring persecution and prison for his faith?
It was the Christ-like qualities of his brothers, and the training he received from Jehovah's organization.
Another example of the benefits that result from our meeting together.
If you'd like to find more ways to imitate Brother Park's faith, you can read his life story beginning on page 12 of the December 2008 issue of Awake.
Like many older ones before them, younger brothers and sisters are taking on challenging assignments that bring them rich spiritual rewards.
We go next to India, to hear from Brother Francis Rodrigs.
He's using his training from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers to teach people in the Indian Sign Language field.
When I was younger, there were two special pioneers who were assigned in the nearby congregation, and I was seeing how happy they were in serving Jehovah.
I had a choice to make, to work overseas, but I decided to serve Jehovah in the full-time service.
In the special full-time service, Jehovah is taking care of all my needs.
I try to be a useful tool in his hand, and let him use me wherever he wants me to be used.
From the past one year, I have been assigned to the Indian Sign Language field.
I have been to almost 20 untouched territories.
We start with the deaf search at 7 in the morning.
Most of the people in the villages are farmers, and they come back for a short break.
We reach till 9 or 9.30 in the night, and then I travel overnight to another village, and at 7 we again start with the Bible studies.
This I do four times a week.
There was a deaf school where we were giving memorial invitations.
Some students just come running towards us, and they do like Jehovah love.
And we are like, how do you know us? Because we never met those school children.
Then we saw a boy who had just attended the meeting once, and he came to the school and told all his friends about it.
And they were like, please you come once to this place and teach us more about Jehovah.
Sometimes we meet the deaf ones who have never been to school.
So sometimes we make their parents sit with them, and we see how they communicate with each other.
And then we adapt to their sign language.
Another place which is 10 hours far from here, initially it was just two or three deaf people who were interested.
But later on it started increasing.
We would have the first Bible study at 7 in the morning.
Turned by turn, everyone would come.
Sometimes there would be so many of them that we would have 10 to 12 in a group, and we would have a Bible study with them.
We had to end the Bible study at 8.30 in the night.
Because I had a 10-odd train journey back home.
We planned to visit the branch office.
And after the two of the two deaf girls started crying.
They said they love that this weather sister showed us.
Now we feel that Jehovah is the only true God.
Since then they have been making many changes in their life.
And now one of the girls is an unbaptized publisher.
When I see the deaf ones doing changes in their life.
They are being happy.
And also having a good relationship with Jehovah.
That makes me more happier.
There are many challenges in their assignment.
Sometimes I have to travel 10 hours to a village.
And traveling does make me tired.
Sometimes the trains are overly packed.
Many times the late by almost three hours.
Or sometimes even cancel due to which we have to go back home.
Challenges will come.
But they will also go.
I try not to get stuck on them.
I pray to Jehovah not to remove these challenges.
But to give me the strength to overcome these challenges.
I feel that challenges are nothing when compared to the benefit that I see.
When I focus on that, I really enjoy my assignment.
Brother Rodriguez searches for those rightly disposed forever lasting life.
Wherever he can find them, despite the obstacles.
And you may have noted that his joy comes from directing people to the congregation
to be part of our true spiritual brotherhood.
That example is repeated millions of times over
through the diligent efforts of publishers and pioneers around the world.
Why not examine your ministry to find ways to help yet more people
to build a good relationship with Jehovah?
As we've seen, just in this program,
examples of faith come in a variety of forms.
In the April 2016 program,
we saw the first two installments in the series
viewpoints on the origin of life.
We'll now enjoy two more examples of those whose backgrounds in scientific study
enabled them to cultivate strong faith in the creator.
My name is Racio Picado Herrero.
I studied chemistry at the University of Salamanca in Spain.
I specialize in organic chemistry.
This field focuses on the study of the carbon atom
and all the compounds that are derived from this atom.
I believed that life came about through evolution.
I remember seeing a picture in a natural science book
that depicted the embryos of different vertebrates.
And in the early stages of development,
the similarities were outstanding.
But when I started studying at the University,
I began studying in detail the process
on which the evolution theory is based.
To my surprise, I discovered that these processes were not proven facts.
As a chemist, I'm fascinated by the distribution of atoms within a molecule.
In living creatures,
the 20 amino acids that are vital for the synthesis of life,
the basic proteins required for life,
interestingly, are all laboratory or left-handed.
So when a ray of polarized light arrives,
these amino acids divert the light toward the left.
There is no explanation for this,
because the logical thing would be that if this were a random process,
half would be right-handed,
and the other half would be left-handed.
I asked myself,
how could evolution produce compounds that are leverodatory,
and precisely the ones essential for life?
In the end, I had to conclude that there must be a force,
a designer, a creator of life,
and of the elements in the amino acids required for life.
Even though I had a religious upbringing,
my ideas were not clear as to who God was.
I merely viewed him as a supreme being,
before whom we would be held accountable.
The Bible is not a science textbook.
Its purpose is not to describe the universe we live in,
or the laws that regulate our universe.
But when it does mention science,
and when it discusses scientific matters,
it does so with great accuracy.
And undoubtedly, the greatest benefit
is that it allows me to enjoy a personal relationship
with the creator of the universe,
a universe that fascinates me from a scientific perspective.
My name is Davey Laws.
I studied biochemistry at the University of Leuven in Belgium,
and after that time, I did a PhD in the same area.
When I was a young child, I believed in the Bible,
but growing up, I kind of lost my interest in it.
When you go to university and you study life sciences
or biochemistry, for example,
you get introduced into the idea of the origin of life very quickly,
and also into the principle of evolution.
The professors who talked these courses,
they were really scientists with long careers,
and they were well-established scientists,
and we had a lot of respect for them,
so there was just no way to really question
the principle of evolution.
In 1999, there was a war in Europe in Kosovo,
and I remember reading in the Bible as a child
about the future events that would take place.
I started wondering whether the war in Kosovo
was one of those events,
so that led me to pick up the Bible again.
At the time, I felt that I had to re-examine my beliefs
about the origin of life and also about the principle of evolution.
Based on the theory of evolution,
we would expect to see an abundance of transitional forms
to be present in the fossil record.
But when we do look at the fossil evidence,
we just don't see that.
The major species come into existence at specific times,
and their form and structure is still exactly the same
as their form and structure today.
It was actually Darwin himself who wrote in his book
that the biggest objection that could be brought against his theory
would be the fact that the fossil record does not show
an abundance of transitional forms,
and that's what really happened if you look at the set of data,
the fossil record seems to prove the opposite of evolution.
As a biochemist, I had the opportunity to learn about
and study many different biomolecules,
and I observed that pretty much every biomolecule
is really a complex molecule.
We can look at them as nanoscale molecular motors
or machines that are performing very complex and specific tasks.
For me, the complexity that we see in nature
and the complexity in those molecules
points to the fact that they're really as a creator.
Did you see common ground that could help you
in your next discussion with someone who believes in evolution?
When Sister Picado Herrero's chemistry research
showed evidence of design,
she called to mind her view of God
from her religious upbringing.
The person you meet who believes in evolution
might also have unanswered questions about God
from their upbringing,
and they may respond to the simple evidences of a creator
that you present.
Brother Lose was moved by world events
to pick up the Bible and re-examine his beliefs.
Everyone we meet, even firm believers in evolution,
are affected by world conditions
and may listen to our message of hope.
So when someone says that he believes in evolution,
don't be quick to assume that he'll reject the good news.
Really, our ministry and other aspects of life
often improve when we slow down,
take our time,
and as our music video admonishes,
don't run fast.
We shouldn't run at all in the Kingdom Hall,
but in a figurative sense,
this counts as a matter of time.
We shouldn't run at all in the Kingdom Hall,
but in a figurative sense,
this counsel not to run fast applies to more than just our young ones.
As we saw,
even when we're busy with important theocratic work,
we can still take the time to consider,
insight,
and encourage our brothers.
And rather than rushing through our field service,
we want to imitate Jesus' focus on finding people
and reaching hearts.
Jehovah reaches our hearts in ever so many ways,
such as when we are in the Kingdom,
in ever so many ways,
such as when we attend our spiritual gatherings.
By now, some of you have already attended the 2016
Remain Loyal to Jehovah Regional Convention,
but millions of us still have an exciting three days ahead,
with 47 well-prepared talks,
18 songs that will sing to Jehovah
and more than 50 audio and video presentations,
including two feature-length dramas.
All of these program parts have been prepared
to help us remain loyal to God,
despite serious challenges.
For instance, how can we maintain our loyalty when under stress
or temptation?
What did Jehovah personally teach Job
that can strengthen our loyalty?
And why does the Bible say that Jehovah's loyal love
is more precious than life itself?
To find out more of what you can expect,
review the full convention program
which can be downloaded from jw.org.
You won't want to miss any part
of the Remain Loyal to Jehovah Convention program.
As we close, we bring you greetings
from the Las Peralas,
No Berry Congregation, and Panama.
The Volcan region is the highest point in the country,
enjoying a cool climate for growing coffee
and a variety of vegetables.
The busy harvest work from October to December
brings large numbers of No Berry speaking people to the area.
Their kind nature gives our brothers excellent opportunities
to teach them about God's kingdom.
Local brothers and sisters provide regular support
to the No Berry Remote Translation Office,
and some are making the effort to learn the language
to assist in the congregation's spiritual harvest.
We send them our warm Christian love and greetings in return,
and pray for them to continue in their zealous spirit.
We thank you, and hope you've enjoyed our program.
This is JW Broadcasting from Brooklyn, New York.